# Health-Analytics-Exploring-the-BRFSS-Dataset
This dataset was provided by BRFSS whose objective is to collect uniform, state-specific data acros the 50 states and participating US territories on preventive health practices and risk behaviors that are linked to chronic diseases, injuries, and preventable infectious diseases that affect the adult population. Factors assessed by the BRFSS in 2013 include tobacco use, HIV/AIDS knowledge and prevention, exercise, immunization, health status, healthy days - health-related quality of life, health care access, inadequate sleep, hypertension awareness, cholesterol awareness, chronic health conditions, alcohol consumption, fruits and vegetables consumption, arthritis burden, and seatbelt use. The main survey covered 17 compulsory sections viz record identification, health status, healthy days, health care access, inadequate sleep, hypertension awareness, cholesterol awareness, chronic health conditions, demographics, tobacco use, alcohol consumption, fruits and vegetables, exercise, Arthritis burden, use seatbelts, immunization, HIV/AIDS, and 22 optional modules. This dataset has 491,775 observations with 330 variables. Given that this dataset was collected in all the 50 states and US territories randomly, the results can be generalized to the entire population, however, causality cannot be infered.

# Research questions

This is a very interesting and robust dataset with several possible research questions. For curiosity sake, I have chosen these two for consideration.
Research quesion 1: Is a person's chance of getting a heart attack related to regular medical check ups, and lack of money for medicine due to cost? I think is very interesting because routine medical checkups may or may not be that influencial given that these this chronic condition come unexpectedly. Money is always an issue so it will be interesting to see its impact.
Research quesion 2: Is depression disorder prevalent amongst the less educated, low income earners, employment status, married or single, which gender suffers most? This fascinates me because depression cuts across all classes of people but I am sure that there are some correlations.
